>> Steve Kinney: feels like the other
thing that it would be nice to be able to
do is to call it from the command line.
Right?
Like to be able to say, hey, read and
evaluate this file, right?
A thing that we could also choose to
do is add another command where we for
instance evaluate a file and had an output
file where we put it out to another file.
There's a lot of ways
that you can extend this.
A lot of it is ancillary to the actual.
It is definitely probably key that you
have somewhere that you're able to use
your language,
otherwise what are you doing?
But we're not gonna go
all the way into that.
To get out of it it's just
Ctrl+C to click the prompt and
you're back on your normal command line,
right?
So, again, oddly satisfying,
when we take a break if you need a few
minutes, if you're watching the video,
you need to pause and
just marvel at your own creation.
I get it.
I understand.
I did it.
[LAUGH] Cool.
So let's hop back over.
Let's look at the CLI code.
CLI code, we put in a bin directory
is kind of the node convention.
And you can see it's
just called drop bear.
And I still wrote most of it but
I will kind of take you through it.
I think it deserves some explaining and
talk about how you could
theoretically expand upon it.
So the important part here is
we have this shebang, right?
Hash bang, shebang, that basically says
okay even though it doesn't have the .js,
you're not calling it with node, we can in
fact, it will run in a node environment.
I mean theory this could be
bash too if you wanted to.
We'll pull in that parse and evaluate.
We want to do two things.
We want to be able to call the repl
from this command line tool.
And we wanna be able to read a file and
log the output, all right?
And so we pulled in the ability
to read from the file system,
we pulled in the ability to parse and
evaluate.
What's going on over here?
So, you get this process at argv,
argv is all of the arguments
past the command line.
And we have to slice two
cuz the first one is node,
the second one is the command itself,
right?
Got it, noted.
Don't need those, right?
So this will actually give
us the rest of it, right?
So if there's no command if
they just type in, drop bear.
Cool, like shoot them into the REPL,
right?
Whatever they type they can
type in capital whatever.
They can type run,
will also then grab another argument and
be able to read the file.
We'll grab the rest of the args,
effectively the third argue and forward.
So like, we can add some additional error
checking here as well, but basically,
they can say, drop bear run and
then a file name and
we'll send it to the same parse and
evaluator, right?
You can do flags through output but you'd
also do a lot of that in bash, right?
If you just use the angle bracket, you can
actually output to another file as well,
so I didn't feel like that was the best
use of our time, but we can take it for
a spin.
But then, how do you use it?
Well, you have a few options, right?
Like, with the bin directory and
node modules, if it was a dependency, for
instance, you could do like
either from your package JSON.
If it was a script, you could run it,
or with MPX, you can run it.
But also, if you globally installed it,
you now have the Dropbear
programming language in your path.
But you're like, I don't really need
to publish it to MPM yet, totally cool.
You can still use it from anywhere
in your system by running MPM link.
So let's actually take that for a spin.
>> Steve Kinney: That's why I make sure
I'm not in the actual Dropbear prompt now.
You can run npm link.
>> Steve Kinney: This is
effectively installing it globally.
All right, and you can see that
I can type it in dropbear now.
And I'm in the command line for dropbear.
>> Steve Kinney: Right now our
language is predominately math like
we now have the power to add
whatever else we want to it right?
And so if you think about it,
like we talked about the fact that like
languages have a lot of different avenues.
They can be a programming language per se.
But they can also do other commands, like
a lot of this like being able to parse and
understand the syntactic structure
of thing could be useful for
writing your own command line tools right?
Like we use it like I mentioned earlier
for like SQL and stuff along those lines.
There's a ton of uses that a lot
of these seals like on top
of the fun like I'm still enamored by
this and I've been doing it for a while.
There's a lot of like just generally
practical ways that like, otherwise you'd
be sitting there probably like regxing
stuff, so on and so forth, right?
Like, and one of the things
that got me into this was like,
basically trying to resurrect HTML,
which went really poorly.
So we can do that.
And the other thing is a run if you
look in, there's an Examples folder.
If you look in there,
there's this example.dbr.
I spent a lot of time trying to come up
with a file extension that wasn't taken by
anything else on my file system.
And it wasn't a full .dropbear,
which I thought about for a while, but
I decided that I didn't want to do that.
So we can do a dropbear and
we can say run.
Do examples
>> Steve Kinney: Right?
I can now like read a file and
execute it, right?
So we've got some of the kind of like
hallmarks of a tool that we can build on
our system.
Be able to do interesting things right,
like our language is still pretty simple
but it's got a lot of the moving pieces
of a real language and if you NPM publish
this it will work like I said, we can
just type dropbear now from anywhere.
We can also run and execute files.
If you want to do
the output somewhere I can
say like I can just do
the carrot command right?
TXD, how about that, like catoutput.txt.
>> Steve Kinney: There's my six.
So now I can theoretically run programs
as I add more things to this language.
There is a few libraries.
Like Minimist is actually
in the package json here,
which will like allow you to parse
flags and do additional other things if
you wanted to additional features
to your command line tool.
That is a thing that you can and
arguably should do as well, right?
This library right here, Minimist,
which is incredibly difficult to say
out loud in front of people, great.
So we have everything in place there.
Now, what if we wanted to
transpire this language?
Right or do things with that ASD?
What if we wanted to add
additional features?
Sometimes it makes sense to
do that at parse time, right?
Sometimes you do want to
transform the language over time.
I mean, as I said before,
most of us when we're using JavaScript
are not using JavaScript isolation.
We are also using JavaScript as we
get it to the point where we can
transform it into other versions
of JavaScript that we can use.